Unused services and protocols must be deactivated.
The reachability of services must be restricted.
"If services cannot be bind to the minimal required interfaces by configuration, a local (packet) filter must regulate the accessibility of the service."
Unused software must not be installed or must be uninstalled.
Unused functions of the operated software and hardware must be deactivated.
"The privileges for processes, services and applications must be reduced to the minimum required for the tasks they have to perform."
Kernel based network functions not needed for the operation as a server must be deactivated.
The automatic launch of applications on removable media must be deactivated.
The administration of the operating system must be done via a network interface which is independent from the production network.
Administrative services and access must be bind to only those interfaces that have been set up to administer.
"Network based access used for operating system administration must have integrity protection, be encrypted and securely authenticated."
Emerged vulnerabilities in software and hardware of a system must be fixed or protected against misuse.
Data with need of protection must be protected against unauthorized viewing and manipulation during transmission and storage.
"If the system is not located in a room with at least protection class ""high"" (PC3), the BIOS and, if available, other options for local management must be secured against unauthorized access."
"If the system is not located in a room with at least protection class ""high"" (PC3), used data storages must be fully encrypted."
The system must be robust against overload situations and must act in a predictable way.
Growing (dynamic) content must not influence system functions.
The IPv4 and IPv6 addresses of all interfaces of a server must be configured statically.
The TCP/IP stack must be implemented and configured in accordance with current knowledge to prevent attacks against the system and its network connections.
Systems must not process IP packets whose source address is not reachable via the incoming interface.
The processing of ICMPv4 and ICMPv6 packets which are not required for operation must be disabled.
An authentication method must be used that allow unambiguous identification of the user.
Accounts must be protected against unauthorized use by at least one authentication attribute.
User accounts with extensive rights must be protected with two authentication attributes.
"There must be no privilege escalation method which allow gaining administrator/root privileges from an user account without a sufficiently strong, renewed authentication."
Predefined authentication attributes must be deleted or disabled.
The privileges of accounts must be reduced to the minimum required for the tasks they have to perform.
The system must be connected to a central system for user administration.
The number of local accounts needed for operation must be minimized.
"If passwords are used for authentication, precautions must be taken to minimize the risks involved by using passwords."
The system clock must be synchronized to a accurate reference time (Time Standard).
Security relevant events must be logged with a precise timestamp and a unique system reference.
Security relevant logging data must be send to an remote system directly after their creation.
